---
layout: post
title:  "The Next Chapter"
date:   2017-05-03 16:08:32 +0000
---


It is so exciting starting on a new path.  Or in my case, backtracking to an old old path and seeing what was beyond the point where I stepped off.  I put myself through college as a systems level programmer.  Writing code in binary coded octal for DEC PDP machines.  We were writing hardware drivers, a new operating system, data management systems, etc....  In school my programming language of choice was PL/C.  All my projects for school were entered on punch cards and run on a huge mainframe.  You went up to the counter and gave the person your boxes of cards.  They ran them through and gave them back then you waited for a couple hours until the printout appeared on the counter.  A few typos could set you back hours.  All the programming I did in my paying jobs was done on terminals - but all we got was a > prompt.  

I ended up heading to business school immediately after graduation to get an MBA and to find a way to get involved in finance.  It took a year and a half after business school to find "my place" but I finally ended up on the fixed income trading floor of Salomon Brothers in NYC.  It was the go go mid-80s colorfully chronicled by Michael Lewis in his first book, Liar's Poker, which was about our firm.  Our group picked him from the training program, taught him the ropes and sent him off to represent our group in London.  The trading floor world was thrilling - and crazy.  Required you to think fast, act precisely and withstand crazy amounts of pressure and we all loved it.  Doing $200 million trades on the phone got the adrenaline pumping.  I later moved to their asset management group as a portfolio manager.  18 years in total at Salomon Brothers was a great ride.  Until September 11th.  That changed everything.  We were in Seven World Trade Center.  Many people left in the following year including me.

I moved away from the city and took time off to raise my son in southern Maine.  He is a great kid and as many of his peers are, he is really into programming.  I watched him get a full time developer job for the summer after his junior year.  By that time he already had two apps on the app store.  He had taken every computer science class at his high school and many online classes as well.  He is going to study computer science in college starting in the fall.  We visited many schools and heard about what is going on in the field today and both of us were captivated.

Faced with being an "empty nester" in the fall I thought about what to do next and it hit me that I wished I was the one heading off to college!  I wanted the internships and opportunities that those schools were talking about!  How could I go back?  I researched my options and was thrilled to find out about the Flatiron School.  As I go through the lessons, so much is coming flooding back.  The languages have changed, but the foundation and fundamentals have not.  Now I get up each day excited about what the future holds for my son, and for ME!  
